# Text-Analytics---topic-modelling-and-sentiment-analysis
Text analytics on financial transcripts

Code contains - *Part I - READING IN DATA + BASIC PREPROCESSING *Part II - DATA PROCESSING + FEATURE ENGINEERING *Part III - PRELIMINARY DATA ANALYSIS *Part IV - FREQUENCY ANALYSIS *Part V - LDA TOPIC MODELING *Part VI - TOPIC SENTIMENT ANALYSIS *Part VII - SPEAKER (CEO/CFO) SENTIMENT ANALYSIS

The analysis is over a total of 261 financial documents pertaining to Verizon (NYSE: VZ) over a 15-year period (2002 Q2 - 2017 Q3). The documents primarily consisted of quarterly earnings calls, press announcements, and investor conference calls. Using these documents, the primary goal was to reduce “noise” and optimize information extraction. We began by using topic modeling techniques to determine the most important themes to further analyze. We performed a variety of sentiment analyses to evaluate the views and attitudes towards these important topics over time. Additionally,focussing on the sentiment of Verizon’s CEO and CFO since they are top-level management and tend to discuss significant, big-picture items that are inextricably linked to the overall health of the company. The analysis primarily focused on topic modeling and sentiment analysis.

# Topic Modeling
implemented LDA Topic Modeling over two document categories - Verizon Earnings and Verizon Conferences. The intuition behind implementing topic modeling and sentiment analysis separately for each of these document categories is that the nature of each category type is different and hence different document types lend to different topics. The topic number was determined through advanced topic modeling and then confirmed through manually examining the word distribution (beta values) and the contextual meaning of the words within the different topics. Topic modeling helped us determine a variety of topics that could be further examined through sentiment analysis to gain insights into events such as acquisitions, industry-wide metrics such as user retention, churn and Verizon products such as “Fios”, ”Verizon Cloud”, etc.

# Sentiment Analysis
Examined the sentiment across speaker type, specifically the sentiment for Verizon’s CEO and CFO across different document types, and business segments, along with the important concepts identified through topic modeling. The results of the sentiment analyses suggest that breaking down the documents into different types can help determine trends more clearly. For example, there seems to be a correlation between a sharp decrease in sentiment around 2011 and a workers strike that occurred in August of that year. An additional result of the analyses relates to the insight gained from examining the correlation between the CEO sentiment and stock prices. When examining this correlation we looked at the daily standard deviation of the sentiment to create a proxy of the movement because we wanted to look at the change in sentiment and how that impacts the stock value. We found that there is a positive correlation between CEO sentiment from the Verizon conference documents and Verizon’s stock prices.
